.TH IGNITE 1 "2026-06-28" "ignite 0.9.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ignite \- secure sandbox execution for JS/TS in microVMs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ignite
.I command
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ignite
runs JavaScript and TypeScript code inside isolated, hardware-virtualized
microVMs rather than containers. It supports native Firecracker on Linux
and Apple's Virtualization.framework on macOS with zero external VM
dependencies.
.PP
Designed for systems that execute untrusted code: AI-generated scripts,
plugin ecosystems, user submissions, and security-sensitive CI checks.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS "ignite init \fIname\fR"
Initialize a new service scaffold.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-path " " \fIdir\fR
Custom output directory (default: \fIname\fR).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-runtime " " \fIruntime\fR
Runtime selection: bun, node, deno, quickjs (default: bun).
.SS "ignite run \fIpath\fR"
Build and execute a service inside a microVM sandbox.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " " \fIjson\fR
JSON-serialized input arguments passed to the service.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-runtime " " \fIspec\fR
Runtime spec override (e.g. bun@1.3).
.TP
.BR \-\-skip\-preflight
Skip preflight security checks and force execution.
.TP
.BR \-\-json
Output execution report in JSON format.
.TP
.BR \-\-audit
Run in hardened security audit mode.
.TP
.BR \-\-audit\-output " " \fIfile\fR
Write security audit logs JSON to file.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show sub-millisecond timelines of VM phases.
.TP
.BR \-\-memory " " \fImb\fR
Override RAM allocation limit in MB.
.TP
.BR \-\-cpus " " \fIcores\fR
Override CPU cores allocation limit.
.TP
.BR \-\-kernel " " \fIpath\fR
Custom guest kernel image binary path.
.TP
.BR \-\-rootfs " " \fIpath\fR
Custom guest root filesystem disk path.
.TP
.BR \-\-runtimes\-root " " \fIpath\fR
Custom guest language runtimes directory path.
.TP
.BR \-\-vsock\-port " " \fIport\fR
Custom VSOCK host connection port.
.TP
.BR \-\-console\-out " " \fIfile\fR
File path to log guest serial console outputs.
.SS "ignite preflight \fIpath\fR"
Run service preflight security checks only, without executing.
.SS "ignite validate \fIpath\fR"
Validate a service configuration without running preflight or execution.
Checks service.yaml fields, runtime support, entry file existence,
memory/timeout values, and package.json presence.
.SS "ignite status"
Show system status and health. Displays KVM/Virtualization.framework
availability, KVM permissions, supported runtimes, and working directory.
.SS "ignite list"
List all supported runtimes with their versions and defaults.
.SS "ignite logs \fIpath\fR"
View past execution logs from audit output or console capture files.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-lines " " \fIn\fR
Show only the last N entries (default: 20).
.SS "ignite version"
Show version information.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show detailed build information including edition, authors, license,
repository, build time, and git hash.
.SS "ignite templates"
Manage service templates.
.TP
.IR "templates list" " (default)"
List all available built-in and user templates.
.TP
.IR "templates show " \fIname\fR
Show details for a specific template.
.SS "ignite serve"
Start the HTTP REST API server.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIport\fR
Port to bind API (default: 3000).
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-host " " \fIhost\fR
Host to bind API (default: localhost).
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-services " " \fIpath\fR
Path to services folder root (default: ./services).
.SH SERVICE CONFIGURATION
Services are configured via \fBservice.yaml\fR in the service directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
service:
  name: my-service
  runtime: bun
  entry: index.ts
  memoryMb: 128
  timeoutMs: 5000
  env:
    NODE_ENV: production
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B IGNITE_API_KEY
API key for the HTTP server (serve command).
.TP
.B IGNITE_KERNEL_PATH
Path to custom kernel image.
.TP
.B IGNITE_ROOTFS_PATH
Path to custom root filesystem.
.TP
.B IGNITE_RUNTIMES_ROOT
Path to custom runtimes directory.
.TP
.B IGNITE_INSTALL_DIR
Installation prefix (default: ~/.local).
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Rust logging filter (e.g. \fBinfo\fR, \fBdebug\fR, \fBignite_core=debug\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.ignite/
Default installation directory for runtime binaries, kernel, and rootfs.
.TP
.I ./service.yaml
Service configuration file.
.TP
.I ./package.json
Node/Bun package manifest.
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize and run a new service:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ignite init hello
cd hello
ignite run .
.fi
.RE
.PP
Validate configuration before running:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ignite validate .
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check system readiness:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ignite status
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run with JSON output and resource overrides:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ignite run . --json --memory 256 --cpus 2
.fi
.RE
.PP
View audit logs:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ignite run . --audit-output audit.json
ignite logs .
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (service not found, preflight failed, runtime error, etc.).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR docker (1),
.BR firecracker (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/dev-dami/ignite/issues
.SH LICENSE
MIT
